[IMP] marketing automation: audience targeting (#8018)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/marketing/marketing_automation/target_audience.rst

==================

> Audience targeting

Reviewer: I could be mistaken, but I believe we're trying to avoid any "ing" phrasing in the main doc h1 -- so, perhaps the original h1 would work best? Again, things may have changed since that information was shared with me. So, this title may work. worth checking into, either way. figured it was worth leaving a comment about. 👍

Author: This was [a suggestion](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/7711#discussion_r1501237914) from ZST in my previous PR, I'll discuss and update as needed :)

Author: @ksc-odoo I spoke with ZST and you are correct that we're trying to avoid any "ing" phrasing in the h1, however, in this case "Audience targeting" is an industry term and is more recognizable than "Target an audience". 

So for the benefit of the _target audience_ 🤓 of this doc, I am going to leave the H1 as "Audience targeting" :)

==================

> The *Target* and *Filter* section of the campaign form, also referred to as the domain, contains the
> fields used to define the target audience for the campaign's reach (i.e., the unique contact records
> in the database).

Reviewer 2: - would use guis here since we're talking about fields on the UI, otherwise uncapitalized italics since they're not proper nouns
- wording: these are fields on a form, not sections as would be indicated by headings
- it's also know clear what exactly the *domain* is referring to: one field in particular or both of them together?
```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Target` and :guilabel:`Filter` fields on the campaign form, also referred to as the *domain*, contain the
parameters used to define the target audience for the campaign's reach (i.e., the unique contact records
in the database, and imported list, etc.).
```

The target audience specifies the type of records available for use in the campaign, such as
*Lead/Opportunity*, *Event Registration*, *Contact*, and more.

> This section can be found on a campaign form by selecting an existing campaign or :ref:`creating a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section can be found on a campaign form by selecting an existing campaign, or :ref:`creating a
```

> new campaign <marketing_automation/campaigns>` from the :menuselection:`Marketing Automation -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new campaign <marketing_automation/campaigns>` from the :menuselection:`Marketing Automation app -->
```

> The target audience specifies the type of records available for use in the campaign, such as
> *Lead/Opportunity*, *Event Registration*, *Contact*, and more.
> 
> This section can be found on a campaign form by selecting an existing campaign, or :ref:`creating a
> new campaign <marketing_automation/campaigns>` from the :menuselection:`Marketing Automation app -->
> Campaigns` dashboard.

Reviewer 2: Don't need lines 9-14; they almost distract away from the small form coverage you're doing in the intro and in the list below.
```suggestion
```

> - :guilabel:`Target`: defines the model of the target audience for the campaign. The assigned model
>   determines the fields that are available throughout the campaign, including the fields available
>   in the :guilabel:`Filter` section, and in dynamic placeholders.

Reviewer 2: - would add guis here since we're doing form coverage
- take earlier definition we removed and put it here since it's more digestible and easier to understand for folks

```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Target`: specifies the type of records available for use in the campaign, such as
  :guilabel:`Lead/Opportunity`, :guilabel:`Event Registration`, :guilabel:`Contact`, The assigned
  records model determines the fields that are available throughout the campaign, including the
  fields available in the :guilabel:`Filter` section, and in dynamic placeholders.
```

- :guilabel:`Save as Favorite Filter`: saves the current :guilabel:`Filter` for future use with the

>   current :guilabel:`Target` model, and can be managed from the :menuselection:`Marketing Automation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  current :guilabel:`Target` model, and can be managed from the :menuselection:`Marketing Automation app
```

  app --> Configuration --> Favorite Filters` menu.

> - :guilabel:`Unicity based on`: specifies the :guilabel:`Target` model field at which duplicates

Reviewer 2: wording
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Unicity based on`: specifies the :guilabel:`Target` model field where duplicates
```

> - :guilabel:`Unicity based on`: specifies the :guilabel:`Target` model field at which to avoid
>   duplicates by. Traditionally, the :guilabel:`Email` field is used, but any available field can be
>   used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Unicity based on`: specifies the :guilabel:`Target` model field at which duplicates
  should be avoided. Traditionally, the :guilabel:`Email` field is used, but any available field can
  be used.
```

> - :guilabel:`Filter`: contains an interactive form to refine the target audience on a specific
>   subset of the :guilabel:`Target` model, detailed in the
>   :ref:`marketing_automation/defining-filters` section.

Reviewer 2: "Specific subset of the  **Target** model" is likely going to confuse non-technical people so here's a suggested rewrite:

```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Filter`: contains an interactive form with configurable logic to further refine the
  targeting parameters under the chosen :guilabel:`Target` model. See more details in the
  :ref:`marketing_automation/defining-filters` section.
```

- :guilabel:`Include archived`: allows or disallows the inclusion of archived records in the target
  audience.

.. tip::
   A :guilabel:`Responsible` user can be assigned to the campaign by activating
   :ref:`developer-mode`.

.. note::

>    Each activity in a campaigns workflow can target a subset of the target audience, see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Each activity in a campaign's workflow can target a subset of the target audience, see the
```

>    Each activity in a campaign's workflow can target a subset of the target audience, see the
>    :doc:`workflow_activities` documentation for more information.

Reviewer 2: run-on sentence
```suggestion
   Each activity in a campaign's workflow can target a subset of the target audience; see the
   :doc:`workflow_activities` documentation for more information.
```

.. _marketing_automation/defining-filters:

Defining filters
================

> The default campaign :guilabel:`Filter` configuration is to :guilabel:`Match all records`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default campaign :guilabel:`Filter` configuration is set to :guilabel:`Match all records`,
```

indicating that the campaign is targeting **all** records of the :guilabel:`Target` model.

To refine the :guilabel:`Filter` rules of a campaign, click the :guilabel:`➕ Add condition` button

> to reveal a new filter rule row.

Reviewer 2: break up the [noun stack](https://www.enago.com/academy/noun-stacks-why-you-should-avoid-them-in-scientific-writing/)
```suggestion
to reveal a new row with configurable rule parameters.
```

.. image:: target_audience/domain-filters.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A new filter rule row on the campaign form Filters.

At the top-left of the filter rules is a drop-down menu with two options. The selected option
determines the criteria of how all of the rules are combined to filter the target audience:

> - :guilabel:`Match all 🔽 of the following rules`: all of the filter rules must be met for a record

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Match all 🔽 of the following rules`: **all** of the filter rules must be met for a record
```

  to be targeted by the campaign. Logically, this is an *AND* (`&`) operation.

> - :guilabel:`Match any 🔽 of the following rules`: any of the filter rules can be met for a record

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Match any 🔽 of the following rules`: **any** of the filter rules can be met for a record
```

  to be targeted by the campaign. Logically, this is an *OR* (`|`) operation.

  .. note::
     The :guilabel:`Match any 🔽 of the following rules` option is only available when there are two
     or more filter rules.

When a rule is added, three inline inputs become available to define the rule's filter criteria:

#. The first inline input is the *field name* of the :guilabel:`Target` model to filter by. Some
   fields have refined paramaters that are nested within another field. These fields have an
   :guilabel:`> (arrow)` icon beside them, which can be selected to reveal the nested fields.
#. The second inline input is the conditional *operator* used to compare the field name to the
   value. The :ref:`available conditional operators <reference/orm/domains>` are specific to the
   field's data type.
#. The third inline input is the variable *value* of the field name. The value input may appear as a

>    drop-down menu, a text input, a number input, a date/time input, a boolean selector, or blank

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   drop-down menu, a text input, a number input, a date/time input, a boolean selector, or it may be blank,
```

   depending on the operator used and the field's data type.

Three inline buttons are also available to the right of the rule's filter criteria inputs:

#. :guilabel:`➕ (plus sign)`: adds a new rule below the existing rule.
#. :guilabel:`(Add branch)`: adds a new group of rules below the existing rule, with the
   :guilabel:`any` and :guilabel:`all` matching options available to define how each rule within

>    this branch is applied to filter. If the matching option is set to the same as the parent group,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   this branch is applied to the filter. If the matching option is set to the same as the parent group,
```

   the fields are moved to join the parent group.
#. :guilabel:`🗑️ (garbage can)`: deletes the node. If a branch node is deleted, all children of

>    that node are deleted as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   that node are deleted, as well.
```

At the bottom of the filter rules is a :guilabel:`# record(s)` button, which indicates the total
number of records targeted by this domain. Select the :guilabel:`# record(s)` button to open a

> :guilabel:`Selected records` pop-up and view the targeted records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Selected records` pop-up window. in which the targeted records can be viewed.
```

.. tip::
   Activate :ref:`developer-mode` to reveal each field's technical name and data type, as well as
   the :guilabel:`# Code editor` text area below the filter rules, to view and edit the domain
   manually.

.. example::
   To target all leads and opportunities from the *CRM* app that are in the *New* stage, and have an

>    expected revenue greater than $1,000:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   expected revenue greater than $1,000, the following should be entered:
```
